Api for host objects for iframes (#999)
MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback: specs/AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins.md

# Background
Currently WebView2 supports adding host objects to script from client application
and then later those objects can be accessed from main JavaScript frame using
`window.chrome.webview.hostObjects.{name}`.
Documentation can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2?view=webview2-1.0.705.50#addhostobjecttoscript).

We were asked to support this feature in iframes including
cross-domain ones. In this document we describe the extension of API to support
host objects in iframes. We'd appreciate your feedback.

# Description
FrameCreated event is triggered when iframe is created and before starting any
navigation and content loading. FrameDeleted is called when iframe is deleted

> or its hosting process has died. By providing event handler for frame created event,

Author: I have taken this comment from chromium header - my understanding is that it means that renderer is crashed, but I will need to double check that.

        remoteObjectAsVariant.pdispVal->Release();
        SysFreeString(origin);
        SafeArrayDestroy(list);

        return S_OK;
    }).Get(), &m_frameCreatedToken));
}
```

# Remarks
List of origins in AddHostObjectToScript will be treated as following:
 - empty list - no host object will be added for the iframe;
 - list with origins - during access to host object from iframe the origin will be
 checked that it belongs to this list;
 - list with "*" element - host object will be available for iframe for all origins.
 We suggest not to use this feature without understanding security implications of
 giving access to host object from from iframes with unknown origins.

# API Notes
See [API Details](#api-details) section below for API reference.

# API Details
## IDL
```c#
/// WebView2Frame provides direct access to the iframes information and use.
[uuid(18ae830b-8c83-459f-8a8c-95a1022af774), object, pointer_default(unique)]
interface ICoreWebView2Frame : IUnknown {
  /// The name of the iframe from the iframe html tag declaring it.
  [propget] HRESULT Name([ out, retval ] LPWSTR * name);
  /// Unique frame identifier.

>   [propget] HRESULT Id([ out, retval ] INT32* frameId);

Author: We propose to use AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins  frame method during frame creation. At this time there is not match information about the frame, so name can be used by developers to distinguish which frame need host objects and which does not. Also I have heard that some applications are using this field. Because name itself is not unique I'm providing Id which is unique. For example: if 5 FrameCreated events are received with the same name - is it the same frame(should not be) or different? Id will provide the answer, because it is unique.

>   [propget] HRESULT Id([ out, retval ] INT32* frameId);

Author: Make sense - will keep the name and will remove id.

  /// Add the provided host object to script running in the WebView2 with the
  /// specified name for the list of the specified origins. The host object
  /// will be accessible for this iframe only if the iframe's origin during access

>   /// matches one of the origins which are passed.

Author: It is correct. For the `<iframe height="200" title="blank" name="about:blanc"></iframe>`
The console in our sample app shows:
```
>console.log(window.frames[2].name)
>about:blanc
>console.log(window.frames[2].origin)
>https://appassets.example
```

>   /// matches one of the origins which are passed.

Reviewer: Great! We should document that.

>   /// matches one of the origins which are passed.

Author: @david-risney I have updated about Non-ASCII origins with next comment:
`Non-ASCII origins can be passed in Unicode or Punycode format. The IDN origins will be converted to Unicode and normalized before comparison.` Now when I'm writing the code I have found that normalization(canonicalization) applies to host and protocol is not used during it. So 2 questions:
1. Is it correct wording? That origins are normalized, not hosts - or should I update origins to hosts?
2. Should I remove protocol at all, or leave it as is and compare separately host and protocol?

>   /// matches one of the origins which are passed.

Reviewer: 1. Yes that's true: that's a normalization for hosts not origins. How about something like:
> The provided origins will be normalized before comparing to the origin of the document. So the scheme name is made lower case, the host will be punycode decoded as appropriate, default port values will be removed, and so on. This means the origin's host may be punycode encoded or not and will match regardless.
2. We should use all of the [properties of origins](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#origin) when doing the comparison. This is the normal set of things to compare for web security checks. Scheme, host, and port.

  /// \snippet ScenarioAddHostObject.cpp AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins
  /// For more information about host objects navigate to [AddHostObjectToScript]

>   HRESULT AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins(

Author: I should probably add it but I'm not fully understand when it should be used - because during frame deletion we just delete associated host objects with the deleted frame.

>   HRESULT AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins(

Author: Got it, will add ```HRESULT RemoveHostObjectFromScript([in] LPCWSTR name);``` to ICoreWebView2Frame.

      [in] LPCWSTR name,
      [in] VARIANT *object,

>       [in] VARIANT *origins);

Author: Ok, I do not like how long is code for building VARIANT *origins and agree that it could be done better. But supporting one origin instead of list could introduce ambiguity. For example user makes 2 calls: `AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins("name1", object1,  "webview2.com")` and `AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins("name1", object2,  "microsoft.com")`  - names are the same, origins different and objects are different. The result of multiple calls in this case should be different then when objects are the same. With origins as a list, we just substitute the object - so the call is kind of atomic and less error prone, also this behavior would conform to current AddHostObjectToScript in WebView2.

Internally I'm converting VARIANT *origins to SAFEARRAY. Is there a way to pass SAFEARRAY from here in theory? Are there any other way to pass a list of strings which is more reliable?

>       [in] VARIANT *origins);

Author: Ok, so two options:
1. 
```
HRESULT AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigin(
      [in] LPCWSTR name,
      [in] VARIANT *object,
      [in] LPCWSTR origin);
```
Replace parameter VARIANT * origins with LPCWSTR origin(renaming method to  AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigin - without ending s). If user is calling  AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigin with an object name which already exists  - fail that call always(or fail only if object is different? - is it possible to detect that object is the same?). If user wants to have another origin for existing object it has to be removed or "*" should be used initially as origin. In future we can extend this to support regex  as origin(or I can do it now).

2. 
```
HRESULT AddHostObjectToScriptWithOptions(
      [in] LPCWSTR name,
      [in] VARIANT *object,
      [in] HostObjectOptions options);
```
Where HostObjectOptions ( ICoreWebView2HostObjectOptions? ) is new type with origins list. Which interface to search to see how [in] list was done previously as example?

@david-risney Please let me know which option do you prefer or if there are more of them.

>       [in] VARIANT *origins);

Reviewer: I'm hesitant over SAFEARRAY because it uses a SHORT to describe its length and isn't type safe.

A third option could be to use two parameters, one a count and one a LPCWSTR* and we use CoMemAlloc.

I'll send a mail to API review board folks if they have issues, recommendations on this sort of thing.

>       [in] VARIANT *origins);

Reviewer: Option 3 was preferred: Using two parameters, one is a count and one is a LPCWSTR*

}

[uuid(ae64d3bc-01ba-4769-a470-a1888de6d30b), object, pointer_default(unique)]
interface ICoreWebView2 : IUnknown {
  /// Called when a new iframe is created. Use add_FrameDeleted to listen for
  /// when this iframe goes away.
  HRESULT add_FrameCreated(
      [in] ICoreWebView2FrameEventHandler *eventHandler,
      [out] EventRegistrationToken * token);
  /// Remove an event handler previously added with add_FrameCreated.
  HRESULT remove_FrameCreated([in] EventRegistrationToken token);

>   /// Called when iframe is deleted or its hosting process has died.

Author: It is interesting idea. So we will have frame created as WebView2 event and frame deleted as WebView2Frame?
Other that it is asymmetrical the user will need to subscribe to each frame deleted event separately instead of once, when it is WebView2 event.

>   /// Called when iframe is deleted or its hosting process has died.

Reviewer: Maybe if you add sample code that demonstrates usage of the deleted event we can get a better idea of which would be better for the end developer. 

Subscribing to the deleted event on each frame individually is a benefit if the handler is a lambda capturing variables specific to that frame or otherwise if you want to perform different actions for different frames. With a deleted event on the CoreWebView2, the first thing the handler has to do is figure out which frame its being called for and then switching behavior based on that.

>   /// Called when iframe is deleted or its hosting process has died.

Author: Sample code for the frame deleted as WebView2 and WebView2Frame event.

1. FrameDeleted as WebView2 event:
```
CHECK_FAILURE(m_webview2->add_FrameDeleted(
        Callback<ICoreWebView2FrameEventHandler>(
            [this](
                ICoreWebView2* sender,
                ICoreWebView2FrameEventArgs* args) -> HRESULT {
        wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2Frame> webviewFrameDeleted;
        CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_Frame(&webviewFrameDeleted));
        LPWSTR name;
        webviewFrameDeleted->get_Name(&name);

        std::wstringstream message;
        message << "Frame " << std::wstring(name) << " will be deleted" << "\n";
        OutputDebugString(message.str().c_str());
        /*Cleanup*/

        return S_OK;
     }).Get(), &m_frameDeletedToken));
```

2. FrameDeleted as WebView2Frame event:

```
    CHECK_FAILURE(m_webView->add_FrameCreated(
        Callback<ICoreWebView2FrameEventHandler>(
            [this](
                ICoreWebView2* sender,
                ICoreWebView2FrameEventArgs* args) -> HRESULT
    {
        wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2Frame> webviewFrame;
        CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_Frame(&webviewFrame));

        webviewFrame->add_FrameDeleted(
        Callback<ICoreWebView2FrameDeletedEventHandler>(
            [this](ICoreWebView2* sender) -> HRESULT {
            /*Cleanup on frame deletion*/
        }).Get(), &m_frameDeletedToken));

        /*Add host object to script here*/
        
  }).Get(), &m_frameCreatedToken));

```
Please let me know which option do you prefer.

>   /// Called when iframe is deleted or its hosting process has died.

Reviewer: The second looks easier to associate state between the frame and its deleted handle. Let's do that.

# Description
The FrameCreated event is raised when an iframe is created and before starting any
navigation and content loading. The FrameDeleted event is raised when an iframe is deleted
or the document containing that iframe is destroyed.
By providing event handler for frame created event,
user can obtain the iframe and add host objects to it specifying the list of origins
using `AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins` method.
When script in the iframe tries to access a host object the origin of the iframe will be
checked against the provided list. The Frame object has a Name property with the value of the
name attribute from the iframe html tag declaring it. The NameChanged event is raised when
corresponding iframe changes its window.name property.

The host object will be removed during iframe deletion automatically.

# Examples
## FrameCreated/FrameDeleted and AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins

## .NET, WinRT
```c#
void SubscribeToFrameCreated()
{
    webView.CoreWebView2.FrameCreated += delegate (object sender, CoreWebView2FrameCreatedEventArgs args)
    {
        try
        {
            List<string> origins = new List<string>(new string[] { "https://appassets.example" });

>             args.Frame.AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins("bridge", new BridgeAddRemoteObject(), origins, 1);

Reviewer: We don't need or want the count in the .NET or WinRT version of the API - just the COM API. We'll need to modify the generated .NET and WinRT API to take just the collection or array
```suggestion
            args.Frame.AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins("bridge", new BridgeAddRemoteObject(), origins);
```

            [this](ICoreWebView2* sender) -> HRESULT {
            /*Cleanup on frame deletion*/
        }).Get(), &m_frameDeletedToken));

        // Wrap host object
        VARIANT remoteObjectAsVariant = {};
        m_hostObject.query_to<IDispatch>(&remoteObjectAsVariant.pdispVal);
        remoteObjectAsVariant.vt = VT_DISPATCH;

        // Create list of origins which will be checked.
        // iframe will have access to host object only if its origin belongs
        // to this list.
        int originsCount = 1;
        LPCWSTR* originsList =
            reinterpret_cast<LPCWSTR*>(CoTaskMemAlloc(sizeof(LPCWSTR) * originsCount));
        originsList[0] = L"https://appassets.example";
        // Add host object to a script for iframe access
        CHECK_FAILURE(
            webviewFrame->AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins(
                L"sample", &remoteObjectAsVariant, originsList, originsCount));

        remoteObjectAsVariant.pdispVal->Release();
        CoTaskMemFree(originsList);

        return S_OK;
    }).Get(), &m_frameCreatedToken));
}
```

# API Notes
See [API Details](#api-details) section below for API reference.

# API Details

> ## IDL

Reviewer: You have the IDL API definition which is great, but you are missing the C# or IDL3 API definition. 

If you have this building in build-apiwriter.ps1 you can copy the relevant parts out of third_party\edge_webview2\win\webview2_api_writer\dotNetAPIWrapper\winrt_wrapper\Microsoft.Web.WebView2.Core.idl

  /// can be passed in Unicode or Punycode format. The IDN origins will be
  /// converted to Unicode and normalized before comparison. If the iframe is
  /// declared with no src attribute its origin is considered the same as
  /// the origin of the parent document.
  /// List of origins will be treated as following:
  /// 1. empty list - call will fail and no host object will be added for the
  /// iframe;
  /// 2. list with origins - during access to host object from iframe the
  /// origin will be checked that it belongs to this list;
  /// 3. list with "*" element - host object will be available for iframe for
  /// all origins. We suggest not to use this feature without understanding
  /// security implications of giving access to host object from from iframes
  /// with unknown origins.
  /// Calling this method fails if it is called after the iframe is deleted.
  /// \snippet ScenarioAddHostObject.cpp AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins
  /// For more information about host objects navigate to [AddHostObjectToScript]
  HRESULT AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins(
      [in] LPCWSTR name,
      [in] VARIANT *object,

>       [in] LPCWSTR *origins,

Reviewer: Pls put count parameter before origins parameter. Also we can also use the size_is attribute:

```
[in] UINT32 originsCount,
[in, size_is(originsCount)] LPCWSTR* origins);
```

We were asked to support this feature in iframes including
child frames that don't match the origin of the parent. In this document we describe API
additions to support host objects in iframes. We'd appreciate your feedback.

# Description
The FrameCreated event is raised when an iframe is created and before starting any
navigation and content loading. The FrameDeleted event is raised when an iframe is deleted
or the document containing that iframe is destroyed.
By providing event handler for frame created event,
user can obtain the iframe and add host objects to it specifying the list of origins
using `AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins` method.
When script in the iframe tries to access a host object the origin of the iframe will be
checked against the provided list. The Frame object has a Name property with the value of the
name attribute from the iframe html tag declaring it. The NameChanged event is raised when
corresponding iframe changes its window.name property.

The host object will be removed during iframe deletion automatically.

# Examples
## FrameCreated/FrameDeleted and AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins

## .NET, WinRT
```c#

> void SubscribeToFrameCreated()

Reviewer: The goal of the sample code is to demonstrate an end developer scenario using these APIs. For the NameChanged and FrameDeleted events below you show hooking up an event handler but there's no indication why or relationship to a scenario.

Samples might be:
* Add host objects to all frames that match particular origin. This would use FrameCreated and AddHostObject..WithOrigins
* Only add host objects to frames with a particular name. Needs to subscribe to name change to decide to call Add or RemoveHostObject depending on what the name's value is. That would use FrameCreated, Name property and NameChagned event, and Add/RemoveHostObjects methods

That's probably enough even though we don't demonstrate FrameDeleted

  /// The frame which was created.
  [propget] HRESULT Frame([ out, retval ] ICoreWebView2Frame **frame);
}

[uuid(8a1860c1-528f-4286-823c-23b0439340d2), object, pointer_default(unique)]
interface ICoreWebView2FrameDeletedEventHandler: IUnknown {
  /// Provides the result for the iframe deleted event.
  /// No event args exist and the `args` parameter is set to `null`.
  HRESULT Invoke([in] ICoreWebView2Frame * sender, [in] IUnknown * args);
}

[uuid(cfd00c6a-8889-47de-84b2-3016d44dbaf4), object, pointer_default(unique)]
interface ICoreWebView2FrameNameChangedEventHandler : IUnknown {
  /// Provides the result for the iframe name changed event.
  /// No event args exist and the `args` parameter is set to `null`.
  HRESULT Invoke([in] ICoreWebView2Frame * sender, [in] IUnknown * args);
}
```
## .NET and WinRT
```c#
namespace Microsoft.Web.WebView2.Core
{
    /// CoreWebView2Frame provides direct access to the iframes information and use.
     runtimeclass CoreWebView2Frame
    {
        /// The name of the iframe from the iframe html tag declaring it.
        /// Calling this method fails if it is called after the iframe is deleted.
        String Name { get; };

>         /// Called when the iframe changes its window.name property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /// The NameChanged event is raised when the DOM name property of the iframe corresponding to this CoreWebView2Frame object is changed.
```

        event Windows.Foundation.TypedEventHandler<CoreWebView2Frame, Object> NameChanged;

>         /// Called when an iframe is removed or the document containing that iframe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /// The FrameDeleted event is raised when the iframe corresponding to this CoreWebView2Frame object is removed or the document containing that iframe
```

        /// all origins. We suggest not to use this feature without understanding
        /// security implications of giving access to host object from from iframes
        /// with unknown origins.
        /// Calling this method fails if it is called after the iframe is deleted.
        /// \snippet ScenarioAddHostObject.cpp AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins
        /// For more information about host objects navigate to [AddHostObjectToScript]
        void AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins(String name, Object rawObject, String[] origins);
        /// Remove the host object specified by the name so that it is no longer
        /// accessible from JavaScript code in the iframe. While new access
        /// attempts are denied, if the object is already obtained by JavaScript code
        /// in the iframe, the JavaScript code continues to have access to that
        /// object. Calling this method for a name that is already removed or was never
        /// added fails. If the iframe is deleted this method will return fail also.
        void RemoveHostObjectFromScript(String name);
    }

     runtimeclass CoreWebView2
    {
        //..

>         /// Called when a new iframe is created. Use FrameDeleted event to listen for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /// Raised when a new iframe is created. Use the CoreWebView2Frame.FrameDeleted event to listen for
```

corresponding iframe changes its window.name property.

The host object will be removed during iframe deletion automatically.

# Examples
## Frame created event, frame name changed event, adding and removing host object

## .NET, WinRT
```c#
void SubscribeToFrameCreated()
{
    webView.CoreWebView2.FrameCreated += delegate (object sender, CoreWebView2FrameCreatedEventArgs args)
    {
        try
        {
            if (args.Frame.Name.Equals("iframe_name"))
            {
                String[] origins = new String[] { "https://appassets.example" };
                args.Frame.AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins("bridge", new BridgeAddRemoteObject(), origins);
            }
            args.Frame.NameChanged += delegate (object nameChangedSender, object nameChangedArgs)
            {
                CoreWebView2Frame frame = (CoreWebView2Frame)nameChangedSender;
                if (!frame.Name.Equals("iframe_name"))
                {
                    frame.RemoveHostObjectFromScript("bridge");
                }
            };
        }
        catch (NotSupportedException exception)
        {

>             MessageBox.Show("Frame.AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins failed: " + exception.Message);

Reviewer: We want to avoid running MessageBox in our event handlers or async method completion handlers in our samples since MessageBox runs its own message loop and can lead to confusing reentrancy. But this is for NotSupportedException which shouldn't really come up for the experimental or release version of this API correct? We can remove this try/catch for the sample code since the end dev shouldn't be able to see a NotSupportedException?

Author: In sample app this part is wrapped into `#if USE_WEBVIEW2_STAGING`, and it crashes without catching exception in Debug configuration. Will rebuild for Release and update with results.

Author: Ok, I reread the initial message - try-catch is indeed for NotSupportedException  and because flag USE_WEBVIEW2_STAGING is not set in public sample app(event it is set in Release private one) I have removed it here.

    };
}
```

## Win32 C++
```cpp
void SampleClass::SampleMethod()
{
    // Register a handler for the FrameCreated event.
    // This handler can be used to add host objects to the created iframe.
    CHECK_FAILURE(m_webView->add_FrameCreated(
        Callback<ICoreWebView2FrameCreatedEventHandler>(
            [this](
                ICoreWebView2* sender,
                ICoreWebView2FrameCreatedEventArgs* args) -> HRESULT
    {
        wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2Frame> webviewFrame;
        CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_Frame(&webviewFrame));

        // Subscribe to frame name changed event and remove host object when name is changed
        webviewFrame->add_NameChanged(
        Callback<ICoreWebView2FrameNameChangedEventHandler>(
            [this](ICoreWebView2Frame* sender,
                IUnknown* args) -> HRESULT {
            LPWSTR newName;
            CHECK_FAILURE(sender->get_Name(&newName));
            if (std::wcscmp(newName, L"iframe_name") != 0)
            {
                sender->RemoveHostObjectFromScript(L"sample");
            }
            return S_OK;
        }).Get(), NULL);

        LPWSTR name;
        CHECK_FAILURE(webviewFrame->get_Name(&name));

>         if (!std::wcscmp(name, L"iframe_name"))

Reviewer: Can we do an explicit comparison to 0 to match the explicit != 0 above and since wcscmp isn't boolean?
```suggestion
        if (std::wcscmp(name, L"iframe_name") == 0)
```

    {
        try
        {
            args.Frame.NameChanged += delegate (object sender, CoreWebView2FrameNameChangedEventArgs args)
            {
                // Handle frame name changed event
            };
            args.Frame.FrameDeleted += delegate (object sender, object args)
            {
                // Handle frame deleted event
            };

>             string origins = "https://appassets.example";

Author: @david-risney  I'm doing something wrong here. Compiler says that `origins` should be string instead of list of strings. Any suggestions? Also where to make a fix to remove the forth parameter from `AddHostObjectToScriptWithOrigins` for .NET?

Reviewer: We'll need to modify the .NET code generator. You don't need to do that yet for the API review though. You can just modify the API doc to show the correct API definition and sample code.
